I'll now show you how to apply some of the recommendations on a sample Windows 10 system.
Let's start by looking at the system security settings.
To do this, open the control panel,
select System and Security.
There's two areas you need to be aware of.
First is the Windows Defender firewall.
This is where you can turn on or turn off the Windows Defender firewall.
I recommend just keep the default of on.
Microsoft actually did a pretty good job in Windows 10 with their firewall.
Leave it on for both the private networks,
that may be an internal network,
and then anytime the system may be on any guest or public networks like an open Wi-Fi.
Also under System and Security,
is Security and Maintenance.
If we click on that,
and then highlight the security drop-down,
you will see we can also look at the network firewall here as well.
We can change any Internet security settings and User Account Control.
Well first by looking at the virus protection.
In the Windows virus and threat protection,
we can see if Windows Defender anti-virus is turned on by default,
we can run a scan,
see when it was last scanned,
and if there are any threats or viruses known to Windows Defender on the system.
Good news, everything is on and there are no virus or threats detected.
Microsoft Defender, virus and threat protection is a good default option for many users.
Now let's look at some of the local security policies available on Windows 10.
Earlier, you saw the local security policy application.
Going back there, you now should review the local policy settings,
including the audit policy,
user rights, assignment, and security options.
Let's look at the local policies,
including the audit policy.
The audit policy is where the computer logged whatever is happening.
For example, if we want to turn on privilege use,
so anytime someone uses administrative privileges on this PC,
it should be logged,
whether it's a success or a failure.
You can click on the Explain tab to learn more about this option.
To change the security setting for this audit privilege,
you just need to click on the check boxes.
So I'm going to turn on both success and failure,
click OK, and you see this is now available as a security setting.
User Rights Assignment allows
the granular setting of what each user account is permitted to do.
As you can see, there are many options.
I recommend you take some time to review these,
change them as needed based on your security policy for your organization.
Security options has a list of additional configuration options for the operating system.
For example, if you want to set specific logon hours and
have the machine automatically log off when they expire,
you can use this option.
There's many other options available under security options.
Take some time to understand them.
The last security setting you should configure on
this Windows 10 PC is User Account Control or the, UAC setting.
To do this, go to the start bar,
when I just type UAC,
it automatically knows I want to change the user account settings.
Going into User Account Control Settings,
this is where you determine how
the user can use administrative privileges on this local PC.
You'll see here right now it's going to never notify when
any changes are made on the system using administrative authority.
This is a very dangerous setting and is not recommended.
I recommend using the default setting to notify
whenever any applications try to make changes to this computer.
To make the change,
click OK. Now the user account control setting is in place.
There are many security options and settings you can have on a Windows 10 PC.
You can find most of them simply through the control panel.
I encourage you to use this as an opportunity to learn more about
Windows 10 security because this will help
you across many other different types of systems.